

This a model from the article:  
**Bistability in apoptosis: roles of bax, bcl-2, and mitochondrial permeability transition pores.**   
Bagci EZ, Vodovotz Y, Billiar TR, Ermentrout GB, Bahar I. _Biophys J_ 2006 Mar
1;90(5):1546-59 [16339882](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/16339882) ,  
**Abstract:**   
We propose a mathematical model for mitochondria-dependent apoptosis, in which
kinetic cooperativity in formation of the apoptosome is a key element ensuring
bistability. We examine the role of Bax and Bcl-2 synthesis and degradation
rates, as well as the number of mitochondrial permeability transition pores
(MPTPs), on the cell response to apoptotic stimuli. Our analysis suggests that
cooperative apoptosome formation is a mechanism for inducing bistability, much
more robust than that induced by other mechanisms, such as inhibition of
caspase-3 by the inhibitor of apoptosis (IAP). Simulations predict a
pathological state in which cells will exhibit a monostable cell survival if
Bax degradation rate is above a threshold value, or if Bax expression rate is
below a threshold value. Otherwise, cell death or survival occur depending on
initial caspase-3 levels. We show that high expression rates of Bcl-2 can
counteract the effects of Bax. Our simulations also demonstrate a monostable
(pathological) apoptotic response if the number of MPTPs exceeds a threshold
value. This study supports our contention, based on mathematical modeling,
that cooperativity in apoptosome formation is critically important for
determining the healthy responses to apoptotic stimuli, and helps define the
roles of Bax, Bcl-2, and MPTP vis-a-vis apoptosome formation.

This model was taken from the [CellML
repository](http://www.cellml.org/models) and automatically converted to SBML.  
The original model was: [ **Bagci EZ, Vodovotz Y, Billiar TR, Ermentrout GB,
Bahar I. (2006) - version=1.0**
](http://models.cellml.org/exposure/26c452c0ad536ece6b5185c7c0e90650)  
The original CellML model was created by:  
**Wendy Kang**   
wkan014@aucklanduni.ac.nz  
The University of Auckland  

This model originates from BioModels Database: A Database of Annotated
Published Models (http://www.ebi.ac.uk/biomodels/). It is copyright (c)
2005-2011 The BioModels.net Team.  
To the extent possible under law, all copyright and related or neighbouring
rights to this encoded model have been dedicated to the public domain
worldwide. Please refer to [CC0 Public Domain
Dedication](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/) for more
information.

In summary, you are entitled to use this encoded model in absolutely any
manner you deem suitable, verbatim, or with modification, alone or embedded it
in a larger context, redistribute it, commercially or not, in a restricted way
or not..  
  
To cite BioModels Database, please use: [Li C, Donizelli M, Rodriguez N,
Dharuri H, Endler L, Chelliah V, Li L, He E, Henry A, Stefan MI, Snoep JL,
Hucka M, Le Nov√®re N, Laibe C (2010) BioModels Database: An enhanced, curated
and annotated resource for published quantitative kinetic models. BMC Syst
Biol., 4:92.](http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/20587024)

